docs/get-started/whats-a-story.md, before:

---
title: "What's a Story"
---

A story captures the rendered state of a UI component. Developers write multiple stories per component that describe all the “interesting” states a component can support.

The CLI created example components that demonstrate the types of components you can build with Storybook: Button, Header, and Page.

Each example component has a set of stories that show the states it supports. You can browse the stories in the UI and see the code behind them in files that end with `.stories.js` or `.stories.ts`. The stories are written in Component Story Format (CSF)--an ES6 modules-based standard--for writing component examples.

Let’s start with the `Button` component. A story is a function that describes how to render the component in question. Here’s how to render `Button` in the “primary” state and export a story called `Primary`.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

<CodeSnippets
  paths={[
    'react/button-story.js.mdx',
    'react/button-story.ts.mdx',
    'angular/button-story.ts.mdx',
    'vue/button-story.js.mdx',
    'svelte/button-story.js.mdx',
    'web-components/button-story.js.mdx',
    'html/button-story.js.mdx',
    'html/button-story.ts.mdx',
    'preact/button-story.js.mdx',
  ]}
/>

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

![Initial button story](./example-button-noargs.png)

View the rendered `Button` by clicking on it in the Storybook sidebar.

The above story definition can be further improved to take advantage of [Storybook’s “args”](../writing-stories/args.md) concept. Args describes the arguments to Button in a machine-readable way. It unlocks Storybook’s superpower of altering and composing arguments dynamically.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

<CodeSnippets
  paths={[
    'react/button-story-with-args.js.mdx',
    'react/button-story-with-args.ts.mdx',
    'vue/button-story-with-args.2.js.mdx',
    'vue/button-story-with-args.3.js.mdx',
    'angular/button-story-with-args.ts.mdx',
    'web-components/button-story-with-args.js.mdx',
    'svelte/button-story-with-args.js.mdx',
    'html/button-story-with-args.js.mdx',
    'html/button-story-with-args.ts.mdx',
    'preact/button-story-with-args.js.mdx',
  ]}
/>

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

![Button story with args](./example-button-args.png)

Both story examples render the same thing because Storybook feeds the given `args` property into the story during render. But you get timesaving conveniences with args:

- `Button`s callbacks are logged into the Actions tab. Click to try it.
- `Button`s arguments are dynamically editable in the Controls tab. Adjust the controls

### Edit a story

Storybook makes it easy to work on one component in one state (aka a story) at a time. When you edit the Button code or stories, Storybook will instantly re-render in the browser. No need to refresh manually.

Update the `label` of the `Primary` story, then see your change in Storybook.

<video autoPlay muted playsInline loop>
  <source
    src="example-button-hot-module-reload-optimized.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
</video>

Stories are also helpful for checking that UI continues to look correct as you make changes. The `Button` component has four stories that show it in different use cases. View those stories now to confirm that your change to `Primary` didn’t introduce unintentional bugs in the other stories.

<video autoPlay muted playsInline loop>
  <source
    src="example-button-browse-stories-optimized.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
</video>

Checking component’s stories as you develop helps prevent accidental regressions. [Tools that integrate with Storybook can automate this](../writing-tests/introduction.md) for you.

Now that we’ve seen the basic anatomy of a story let’s see how we use Storybook’s UI to develop stories.

Commit message:

Add optional steps for using Native Format
It was confusing going through the guide as a new user from the Getting Started and following along to this page.

If you try to just use the tab labeled "NATIVE-FORMAT" without following the additional steps you'll have to do some investigating
on what went wrong and what you need to install for it to function since it seems like core functionality at this point.

docs/get-started/whats-a-story.md, after:

---
title: "What's a Story"
---

A story captures the rendered state of a UI component. Developers write multiple stories per component that describe all the “interesting” states a component can support.

The CLI created example components that demonstrate the types of components you can build with Storybook: Button, Header, and Page.

Each example component has a set of stories that show the states it supports. You can browse the stories in the UI and see the code behind them in files that end with `.stories.js` or `.stories.ts`. The stories are written in Component Story Format (CSF)--an ES6 modules-based standard--for writing component examples.

Let’s start with the `Button` component. A story is a function that describes how to render the component in question. Here’s how to render `Button` in the “primary” state and export a story called `Primary`.

<details>
<summary><h4 id="troubleshooting">Additional steps for using Native Format</h4></summary>

- Install [addon-svelte-csf](https://github.com/storybookjs/addon-svelte-csf) as a dependency.
- Update `.storybook/main.js` to include "@storybook/addon-svelte-csf" in the addons array.
- Update `.storybook/main.js` to set `storyStoreV7` to false.

If all else fails, try asking for [help](https://storybook.js.org/support)

</details>

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

<CodeSnippets
  paths={[
    'react/button-story.js.mdx',
    'react/button-story.ts.mdx',
    'angular/button-story.ts.mdx',
    'vue/button-story.js.mdx',
    'svelte/button-story.js.mdx',
    'web-components/button-story.js.mdx',
    'html/button-story.js.mdx',
    'html/button-story.ts.mdx',
    'preact/button-story.js.mdx',
  ]}
/>

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

![Initial button story]ç

View the rendered `Button` by clicking on it in the Storybook sidebar.

The above story definition can be further improved to take advantage of [Storybook’s “args”](../writing-stories/args.md) concept. Args describes the arguments to Button in a machine-readable way. It unlocks Storybook’s superpower of altering and composing arguments dynamically.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

<CodeSnippets
  paths={[
    'react/button-story-with-args.js.mdx',
    'react/button-story-with-args.ts.mdx',
    'vue/button-story-with-args.2.js.mdx',
    'vue/button-story-with-args.3.js.mdx',
    'angular/button-story-with-args.ts.mdx',
    'web-components/button-story-with-args.js.mdx',
    'svelte/button-story-with-args.js.mdx',
    'html/button-story-with-args.js.mdx',
    'html/button-story-with-args.ts.mdx',
    'preact/button-story-with-args.js.mdx',
  ]}
/>

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

![Button story with args](./example-button-args.png)

Both story examples render the same thing because Storybook feeds the given `args` property into the story during render. But you get timesaving conveniences with args:

- `Button`s callbacks are logged into the Actions tab. Click to try it.
- `Button`s arguments are dynamically editable in the Controls tab. Adjust the controls

### Edit a story

Storybook makes it easy to work on one component in one state (aka a story) at a time. When you edit the Button code or stories, Storybook will instantly re-render in the browser. No need to refresh manually.

Update the `label` of the `Primary` story, then see your change in Storybook.

<video autoPlay muted playsInline loop>
  <source
    src="example-button-hot-module-reload-optimized.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
</video>

Stories are also helpful for checking that UI continues to look correct as you make changes. The `Button` component has four stories that show it in different use cases. View those stories now to confirm that your change to `Primary` didn’t introduce unintentional bugs in the other stories.

<video autoPlay muted playsInline loop>
  <source
    src="example-button-browse-stories-optimized.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
</video>

Checking component’s stories as you develop helps prevent accidental regressions. [Tools that integrate with Storybook can automate this](../writing-tests/introduction.md) for you.

Now that we’ve seen the basic anatomy of a story let’s see how we use Storybook’s UI to develop stories.
