docs/contribute/framework.md, before:

---
title: 'Contributing a Storybook framework'
---

A Storybook framework is a node package that enables out-of-the-box support for either a metaframework (like Next.js, NuxtJS, or SvelteKit) or a combination of a builder (Webpack or Vite) and a renderer (React, Angular, Vue, web components, etc). When the framework provides support for a metaframework, it also takes care of any additional configuration necessary to make Storybook behave as similarly as possible to apps generated by the metaframework. For example, `@storybook/nextjs` [recreates or mocks a number of features of Next.js apps](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/README.md#supported-features) inside Storybook.

For your reference, you can view [all of the official Storybook frameworks](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/tree/next/code/frameworks), including their full source code and documentation.

## How to make a framework

### 1. Decide on a package name

The name should start with `storybook-framework-` and then correspond to what your framework supports. For example, a framework targeting SvelteKit would be `storybook-framework-svelte-kit` and a framework targeting Stencil with Vite would be `storybook-framework-stencil-vite`. When not targeting a metaframework, the naming convention is `storybook-framework-<renderer>-<builder>`.

### 2. Consider what your framework will need to do

Remember, the goal is to make Storybook behave—out-of-the-box—as similarly as possible to the metaframework or builder-renderer combination you’re targeting. In particular for metaframeworks, this means attempting to recreate any builder or babel configuration provided by the metaframework. And you should try to do so in a way that respects existing project configuration as much as possible.

The library or libraries your framework supports may have different major versions available. Carefully consider which versions of each library your framework will support. You will need to account for the changes within those different versions or split your framework into different versions/packages itself to support each library version. To help ongoing maintenance, please consider adding integration tests for the various library versions your framework supports.

### 3. Write the README

Before writing any code, we advise you to write up a helpful README. It should, at minimum, contain installation instructions and a list of available features. Use the [README for `@storybook/nextjs`](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/README.md) as a template. By writing the documentation first, it becomes a guide for your other work.

### 4. Author the framework itself

A framework can contain the following parts:

**`package.json`** ([example](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/package.json))

Because a framework is a node package, it must contain a `package.json` file. Here’s a template you can use to start:

<details>
<summary><code>package.json</code> template</summary>

```json
{
  "name": "<your-framework-name>",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "Storybook for <meta-framework-name> or <renderer> & <builder>",
  "keywords": [
    "Storybook",
    "<meta-framework-name>",
    "<renderer>",
    "<builder>",
    "<anything>",
    "<else>",
    "<relevant>"
  ],
  "homepage": "<your package's homepage>",
  "bugs": {
    "url": "https://github.com/<your-org>/<your-repo>/issues"
  },
  "repository": {
    "type": "git",
    "url": "https://github.com/<your-org>/<your-repo>.git",
    "directory": "<path/to/your/framework>"
  },
  "license": "MIT",
  "exports": {
    ".": {
      "require": "./dist/index.js",
      "import": "./dist/index.mjs",
      "types": "./dist/index.d.ts"
    },
    "./preset": {
      "require": "./dist/preset.js",
      "import": "./dist/preset.mjs",
      "types": "./dist/preset.d.ts"
    },
    "./preview.js": {
      "require": "./dist/preview.js",
      "import": "./dist/preview.mjs",
      "types": "./dist/preview.d.ts"
    },
    "./package.json": "./package.json"
  },
  "main": "dist/index.js",
  "module": "dist/index.mjs",
  "types": "dist/index.d.ts",
  "files": ["dist/**/*", "types/**/*", "README.md", "*.js", "*.d.ts"],
  "scripts": {
    "check": "tsc --noEmit",
    "test": "..."
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@storybook/addons": "^7.0.0",
    "@storybook/core-common": "^7.0.0",
    "@storybook/node-logger": "^7.0.0",
    "@storybook/<builder>": "^7.0.0",
    "@storybook/<renderer>": "^7.0.0"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "typescript": "x.x.x",
    "<meta-framework>": "^x.x.x",
    "<builder>": "^x.x.x"
  },
  "peerDependencies": {
    "@babel/core": "^x.x.x",
    "@storybook/addon-actions": "^7.0.0",
    "<meta-framework>": "^x.x.x || ^x.x.x",
    "<renderer>": "^x.x.x || ^x.x.x",
    "<builder>": "^x.x.x"
  },
  "engines": {
    "node": ">=16"
  },
  "publishConfig": {
    "access": "public"
  }
}
```

A few notes on some of those properties:

- `exports`: The root, `./preset`, and `package.json` exports are required. If your framework has a `preview.js`, then that is required as well.
- `types`: We strongly encourage you to author your framework in TypeScript and distribute the types.
- `dependencies` and `devDependencies`: These are just examples. Yours may look quite different.
- `peerDependencies`: If your framework provides support for multiple versions of the libraries you’re targeting, be sure that is represented here.

</details>

**`preset.js`** ([example](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/src/preset.ts))

The [preset API](../addons/writing-presets) is where you will configure the Storybook core (which builder and renderer are used by your framework), the builder (via either the [`webpackFinal`](../builders/webpack#extending-storybooks-webpack-config) or [`viteFinal`](../builders/vite#configuration) export), babel (via the `babel` export), any necessary addons, and any available options for your framework.

**`preview.js`** ([example](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/src/preview.tsx))

The (optional) [preview API](../configure/overview#configure-story-rendering) is where you configure the rendering of stories, such as global decorators or initializing some runtime config needed for your framework to behave as expected. If your framework requires this file, note that you also need to [configure the `previewAnnotations` in `preset.js`](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/src/preset.ts#L66-L69).

**`types.ts`** ([example](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/src/types.ts))

If you author your framework in TypeScript (recommended), you should export the type for `StorybookConfig` which reflects the available options of your framework.

### 5. Test your framework

Test it in a fresh project using a Storybook set up as close as possible to your framework. For example, for `@storybook/nextjs`, which uses React and Webpack5, start with a project that uses `@storybook/react` and `@storybook/builder-webpack5`. Follow the installation instructions from your README and ensure everything works as expected. Remember to test the various versions, configs, and options for the libraries you’re supporting.

### 6. Let us know!

Once it's fully tested and released, please let us know about your framework by either announcing it in the `#showcase` channel of the [Storybook Discord](https://discord.gg/storybook) or tweeting it and mentioning `@storybookjs`. It's our hope that well-made community frameworks can eventually move into the Storybook codebase and be considered "official" support.

## Thank you

We deeply appreciate your help in making Storybook work for more developers and the libraries in which they build. If you have any suggestions to improve this document, please use the “Edit” link below.

Commit message:

Address feedback
- Add link to TOC
- Change 'Write the README' heading to 'Write the documentation"
- Remove 'Thank you' section
- Add 'Other ways to contribute' section
    - Update/add corresponding section on other relevant pages

docs/contribute/framework.md, after:

---
title: 'Contributing a Storybook framework'
---

A Storybook framework is a node package that enables out-of-the-box support for either a metaframework (like Next.js, NuxtJS, or SvelteKit) or a combination of a builder (Webpack or Vite) and a renderer (React, Angular, Vue, web components, etc). When the framework provides support for a metaframework, it also takes care of any additional configuration necessary to make Storybook behave as similarly as possible to apps generated by the metaframework. For example, `@storybook/nextjs` [recreates or mocks a number of features of Next.js apps](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/README.md#supported-features) inside Storybook.

For your reference, you can view [all of the official Storybook frameworks](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/tree/next/code/frameworks), including their full source code and documentation.

## How to make a framework

### 1. Decide on a package name

The name should start with `storybook-framework-` and then correspond to what your framework supports. For example, a framework targeting SvelteKit would be `storybook-framework-svelte-kit` and a framework targeting Stencil with Vite would be `storybook-framework-stencil-vite`. When not targeting a metaframework, the naming convention is `storybook-framework-<renderer>-<builder>`.

### 2. Consider what your framework will need to do

Remember, the goal is to make Storybook behave—out-of-the-box—as similarly as possible to the metaframework or builder-renderer combination you’re targeting. In particular for metaframeworks, this means attempting to recreate any builder or babel configuration provided by the metaframework. And you should try to do so in a way that respects existing project configuration as much as possible.

The library or libraries your framework supports may have different major versions available. Carefully consider which versions of each library your framework will support. You will need to account for the changes within those different versions or split your framework into different versions/packages itself to support each library version. To help ongoing maintenance, please consider adding integration tests for the various library versions your framework supports.

### 3. Write the documentation

Before writing any code, we advise you to write up a helpful README. It should, at minimum, contain installation instructions and a list of available features. Use the [README for `@storybook/nextjs`](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/README.md) as a template. By writing the documentation first, it becomes a guide for your other work.

### 4. Author the framework itself

A framework can contain the following parts:

**`package.json`** ([example](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/package.json))

Because a framework is a node package, it must contain a `package.json` file. Here’s a template you can use to start:

<details>
<summary><code>package.json</code> template</summary>

```json
{
  "name": "<your-framework-name>",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "Storybook for <meta-framework-name> or <renderer> & <builder>",
  "keywords": [
    "Storybook",
    "<meta-framework-name>",
    "<renderer>",
    "<builder>",
    "<anything>",
    "<else>",
    "<relevant>"
  ],
  "homepage": "<your package's homepage>",
  "bugs": {
    "url": "https://github.com/<your-org>/<your-repo>/issues"
  },
  "repository": {
    "type": "git",
    "url": "https://github.com/<your-org>/<your-repo>.git",
    "directory": "<path/to/your/framework>"
  },
  "license": "MIT",
  "exports": {
    ".": {
      "require": "./dist/index.js",
      "import": "./dist/index.mjs",
      "types": "./dist/index.d.ts"
    },
    "./preset": {
      "require": "./dist/preset.js",
      "import": "./dist/preset.mjs",
      "types": "./dist/preset.d.ts"
    },
    "./preview.js": {
      "require": "./dist/preview.js",
      "import": "./dist/preview.mjs",
      "types": "./dist/preview.d.ts"
    },
    "./package.json": "./package.json"
  },
  "main": "dist/index.js",
  "module": "dist/index.mjs",
  "types": "dist/index.d.ts",
  "files": ["dist/**/*", "types/**/*", "README.md", "*.js", "*.d.ts"],
  "scripts": {
    "check": "tsc --noEmit",
    "test": "..."
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@storybook/addons": "^7.0.0",
    "@storybook/core-common": "^7.0.0",
    "@storybook/node-logger": "^7.0.0",
    "@storybook/<builder>": "^7.0.0",
    "@storybook/<renderer>": "^7.0.0"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "typescript": "x.x.x",
    "<meta-framework>": "^x.x.x",
    "<builder>": "^x.x.x"
  },
  "peerDependencies": {
    "@babel/core": "^x.x.x",
    "@storybook/addon-actions": "^7.0.0",
    "<meta-framework>": "^x.x.x || ^x.x.x",
    "<renderer>": "^x.x.x || ^x.x.x",
    "<builder>": "^x.x.x"
  },
  "engines": {
    "node": ">=16"
  },
  "publishConfig": {
    "access": "public"
  }
}
```

A few notes on some of those properties:

- `exports`: The root, `./preset`, and `package.json` exports are required. If your framework has a `preview.js`, then that is required as well.
- `types`: We strongly encourage you to author your framework in TypeScript and distribute the types.
- `dependencies` and `devDependencies`: These are just examples. Yours may look quite different.
- `peerDependencies`: If your framework provides support for multiple versions of the libraries you’re targeting, be sure that is represented here.

</details>

**`preset.js`** ([example](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/src/preset.ts))

The [preset API](../addons/writing-presets) is where you will configure the Storybook core (which builder and renderer are used by your framework), the builder (via either the [`webpackFinal`](../builders/webpack#extending-storybooks-webpack-config) or [`viteFinal`](../builders/vite#configuration) export), babel (via the `babel` export), any necessary addons, and any available options for your framework.

**`preview.js`** ([example](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/src/preview.tsx))

The (optional) [preview API](../configure/overview#configure-story-rendering) is where you configure the rendering of stories, such as global decorators or initializing some runtime config needed for your framework to behave as expected. If your framework requires this file, note that you also need to [configure the `previewAnnotations` in `preset.js`](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/src/preset.ts#L66-L69).

**`types.ts`** ([example](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/frameworks/nextjs/src/types.ts))

If you author your framework in TypeScript (recommended), you should export the type for `StorybookConfig` which reflects the available options of your framework.

### 5. Test your framework

Test it in a fresh project using a Storybook set up as close as possible to your framework. For example, for `@storybook/nextjs`, which uses React and Webpack5, start with a project that uses `@storybook/react` and `@storybook/builder-webpack5`. Follow the installation instructions from your README and ensure everything works as expected. Remember to test the various versions, configs, and options for the libraries you’re supporting.

### 6. Let us know!

Once it's fully tested and released, please let us know about your framework by either announcing it in the `#showcase` channel of the [Storybook Discord](https://discord.gg/storybook) or tweeting it and mentioning `@storybookjs`. It's our hope that well-made community frameworks can eventually move into the Storybook codebase and be considered "official" support.

## Other ways to contribute

Learn about other ways you can contribute to Storybook.

- [**Overview**](./how-to-contribute.md): General guidance
- [**Code**](./code.md): Features, bug fixes, dependency updates
- [**Docs**](./documentation-updates.md): Typos, clarifications
- [**Addons**](./../addons/introduction.md): Build an addon and share it with the community
